the next thing we need to do to turn this from just something that listens on a port and
says hello world into an a p.
I is start figuring out which resource is people are requesting when they send a request to
the A P I.
In order to do that,
we need to parse the u R L that they are asking for Let's go ahead and clear out our
console in OS X.
It is to command K on that erases everything.
Luckily,
note has a nice helper library for all things related to your L functions,
and that is call the U.
R L.
So let's go ahead and require that and we're assigning it to a variable called Europe.
Okay,
so now we have the or L library available,
and I'm going to just write some comments that lay out exactly what we're trying to do the
first days we want to get the u.
R l and parse it.
Then we want to get the path from that your L.
Then we want to send the response.
And then we went to a log what path the person was asking for,
so that when it request comes in when we look at the tournament or weaken C o User just
asked for,
you know,
slash users or slash admin or slash Whatever.
And for now,
we're going to keep this response the same.
Where stood is going to say hello world,
back to the user.
But these other three sections logging the request path,
getting that path,
getting the Orioles parsing it is what we need to fill in.
And we're going to use the your L library for that.
Okay,
so I want to create a variable called Parse TRL.
And the value of that is going to be you are l dot ports Grech dot your l and then the
second parameter is true.
All right,
What is that?
What does that mean?
This is where we need to start explaining what's coming back from this callback or in this
call back when we create the server and then tell it to listen when a request comes in,
both of these objects get filled out and sent to,
you know,
the meat of this function here every single time the request comes in,
so someone hits,
you know,
local host 3000 this function gets called,
someone hits the coast 3000 again,
this function gets called again,
and each time it does this wreck and this rez or new this request object and this response
object a brand new every time and the wreck object.
The request object contains a whole bunch of information about what that user is asking for
.
In this case,
the thing that we're never going down on is exactly which you are.
L full girl HDP Cohen slash last local host 3000 slash Whatever the user is actually asking
for now,
the second parameter is true because of a little bit of a complicated reason.
When we say true,
we're telling it to parse the query string,
which means to set the parse terrell dot query value at the equivalent as if we had sent
this data to the query string module.
So really were using two modules.
And once we're using the URL module because it contains a whole bunch of functions were
actually passing this true to tell it to call the query string module itself.
These two modules work together and you're l can call query string in order to give you are
you are l object or a party or l object that is fully complete,
including parsing the query string data which will be useful for us later on.
But for now,
we don't really need to worry about it.
All we need to know is that once we do this partial oral is an object that contains a whole
bunch of keys of parts to metadata about the request path or your l that came in.
Now we want to get the actual path from this party or l object.
So I'm gonna create a variable and call it path,
and it is going to be defined as parsed your l dot path name all lower case path name is a
key that set on this object,
and it is exactly what it sounds like.
It is the untrimmed path that the user request.
So if they user requested HDP colon slash slash local host 3000 slash fu,
the path is just the food part and the party or l object would contain a whole bunch of
other things about the host etcetera,
which will get into later.
But for now we just want the path and that's contained in the path name which is now
assigned to this variable path.
Okay,
as I mentioned,
is going to go.
This is the untrimmed path and we're going to want this path trimmed.
So we're going to create another object called True Path.
And we are going to do a simple string Replace with the Reg.
Exe And you can go ahead and try to copy this from the source code.
It's ah,
bit convoluted,
as all rejects it seemed to be.
And then the second parameter is just an empty strength.
What is this?
This is basically just trimming off any extraneous slashes from the path.
When the user sends a request,
they might be sending it to local host slash food or they might be sending it to local host
slash food slash on dso.
We basically just want to trim off the slashes from both sides so that this is a clean your
l and we can understand what they're asking for.
We're going to build our A p.
I,
like many people,
build websites where you know the page at slash fu renders the exact same thing as slash
food slash.
Okay,
Now we're sending the response as normal as I mentioned.
And lastly,
we want to go ahead and log out the path that the user is requesting.
So we're going to say that request is received on this path.
Okay,
so I just save this file and I'm gonna go ahead and try to run it again.
Node index dot Js The server is port listening on Port 3000.
Now gonna once again open up another tab in my terminal.
Do curl local host 3000 slash food.
All right,
I got the hello world response back.
And if we look back in the other tab,
we were actually running the note app,
weaken.
See requests received on path food.
Now let's see that rejects at work.
Let's see if we did local host 3000 slash food slash What would happen?
It's gonna log out that you requested the path food because it's trimming slashes from both
sides.
What if we just do local host 3000?
It's going to say that you asked for a path of nothing of an empty string.
What if you just have local host 3000 and then slash?
It's going to say that again it's an empty strength.
So whether you have something in the path or not,
it's going to take away the slashes.
But one important caveat is it should not take away.
Slash is that live in the middle of a string?
So,
for example,
if you're asking,
you know,
for a resource that several directories up like it is at local host 3000 slash food slash
bar slash Sorry,
I didn't request at 300.
It's supposed to be a 3000 if we coral local host 3000 food slash bar Slash It's going to
tell us that the user requested food slash bar so that middle slash is going to stay there
,
whether or not we have that final slash on the end.
So that is how we're getting the path from the user request.
And for now,
we're just locking it out.
We are obviously going to do things with it momentarily.
But before we do that,
there are other things that we need to grab out of this incoming request so that we can
process the request and return response to the user.
For now,
I'm just gonna kill this server,
clean my terminal out,
and we'll go on to the next lecture